---
layout: post
title: React
---

**React**

React is a Javasript library that was created at Facebook. It was originally deployed in 2011 on Facebook and open-sourced in 2013. React was created with the goal of creating large web applications with changing data, without reloading the page. 

"State" in React refers to a built-in object and part of a React component. In the state object, you can store properties for that component. In the event the state object changes, the component will automatically rerender. 

Functional components and class components work fairly differently. Functional components return JSX and, in my mind, they are more straightforward. Class components rely on a render method to return HTML content. Additionally, functional components can interact with the component state using the useState method.

Class components also rely on the componentDidMount method to run code when the component is initially called, whereas functional components will accomplish the same goal with the useEffect method. It's important to understand both types, because both will be encountered in React development, but personally I find functional components to be much more intuitive, especially with React Hooks. 

'Lifting state up' in React refers to when two or more components with a shared ancester need to simultaneously change state. Rather than controlling state from each component seperately, you control the state of both from a common ancestor. You can also accomplish this using hooks in an ancestor component and passing it to the children as props. 

**JSX**

JSX, or Javascript XML, is a syntax extension to Javascript. It allows you to write HTML elements in Javascript. You can return JSX from a React component. HTML Tags will be converted into React elements. 